<h1>Tech Sales Analysis</h1>

By conducting an analysis, we can determine the average, minimum, and maximum price, as well as the volume of quantity. With these two parameters known, it is sufficient to calculate the profit and conduct specific analyses to evaluate product sales, such as ABC and XYZ analyses in addition to it. Thus, after implementing basic statistical analysis, it was noticed that profit and quantity have an inverse relationship. The greater the profit, the fewer units sold, and the higher the price, the fewer units sold. Hence, the theory that fewer sales yield greater profit due to higher prices. Further, we will test this theory. 
But first, it is necessary to analyze sales based on all parameters. Since sales occur in different cities and throughout the year, it would be interesting to see the distribution of sales by cities and months. The distribution of sales by cities occurs independently of the city's population size; for example, the highest sales are not in New York but in San Francisco. It is assumed that this is due to the proximity to Silicon Valley. 
According to the data and graphs, it is noticeable that the highest sales occur in December, in anticipation of the holidays. High sales are also observed in October. Conversely, low sales occur in the summer months and in January, which is associated with vacation periods and post-holiday financial hangover. During this analysis, another theory emerged: since high sales are observed in October, it is possible that this is related to Apple products. Next, we will test this hypothesis. 
Sales were also analyzed by days of the week to identify peak periods. While the difference is not significant in the graphs, most sales occur on Tuesdays and slightly increase on weekends, likely due to some promotion. There was also a question about the timing of higher sales to know when it is best to launch time-limited advertisements and promotions. It turns out that most sales occur during lunchtime and after the end of the working day, with fewer sales, as expected, at night. 
So, next, we will test the hypotheses.
<ol>
  <li>
    High sales volume does not guarantee high profitability of product sales. Therefore, an analysis was conducted to examine the relationship between sales quantity and price for each product. It was observed that low prices result in high sales volume, whereas high prices lead to low sales volume. Additionally, it is important to consider that products vary; accessories and batteries typically have low prices, while electronics have higher prices. Moreover, accessories are more prone to breakage, loss, and are generally always in demand. Comparing the quantity and profit for each product, it was found that products with higher prices generated the highest profit, whereas those with high sales volume resulted in lower profit.
  </li>
  <li>
    Analyzing the sales of Apple products, it was noticed that Apple products experience a peak in sales in December and October. October marks the annual release of new models following the September presentation, which may explain this trend.
  </li>
</ol>

<h2>ABC analysis and XYZ</h2>

<p>Using ABC and XYZ analysis, products have been grouped according to their sales performance. The top-performing product, which generates the highest revenue, is the 27in FHD Monitor. At present, there are no specific recommendations for this item other than maintaining the current marketing strategy. Generally, products in category A do not require special promotions. Within the same category, there are products with varying demand levels and good contribution margins but relatively unstable demand: AA Batteries (4-pack), USB-C Charging Cable, Apple Airpods Headphones. The main strategy for these items is to increase sales, which necessitates enhancing their visibility to customers. The first two items are primarily accessories, and the most effective way to boost their sales is by offering them as add-ons with related products where appropriate. As for Airpods, featuring them prominently in catalogs could be an effective strategy.</p>

<p>The next category consists of items that sell reasonably well but experience sporadic demand, meaning their demand is highly unstable. These include Bose SoundSport Headphones, Wired Headphones, Flatscreen TV, Google Phone, and iPhone. For these items, a suitable strategy would be to fill the storefront on a marketplace with them and/or run promotions featuring them.

The following category comprises items with high revenue but low sales volume. These are typically high-priced items such as the Macbook Pro Laptop and ThinkPad Laptop. While they generate significant revenue, they lack in sales volume. To increase their sales, I would suggest offering discounts on related items with their purchase or providing a bonus for the next purchase of any item from the same brand or another item from the store.</p>

<p>The next category of products consists of items classified as group C, which may not yield significant profits but have relatively stable demand. These include the Vareebadd Phone, LG Washing Machine, and LG Dryer. Interestingly, despite being in the same category, the LG Washing Machine shows consistent and strong sales according to XYZ analysis, while the other two items have unstable sales patterns.

Let's focus on the LG products. Since the washing machine sells steadily but the dryer does not, one strategy could be to offer a discount on the dryer when purchasing the washing machine. Alternatively, offering free delivery and installation, along with an extended warranty, when both items are purchased together could also be effective. The best strategy would need to be determined through further analysis, but if there are no improvements in sales after implementing these changes and conducting additional analysis, discontinuing the sale of these two items might be advisable.

As for the Vareebadd Phone, it falls into category CC but within category Y, indicating potential for a loyalty program. Again, offering a bonus or discount for future purchases could be effective in encouraging customer loyalty and repeat purchases.</p>

<p>Based on all analyses, there is one product that stands out as a complete outsider: the 20in Monitor. It's advisable to either discontinue its sale altogether or transition to a pre-order model where it's only available upon customer request. This approach ensures that resources are not allocated towards stocking a product with minimal demand while still catering to potential customers who specifically seek out this item.

Another strategy, specifically for Apple products, involves leveraging sales peaks coinciding with product launches. It would make sense to offer discounts on Apple products prior to new releases, such as in the summer or January. This strategy would incentivize customers to make purchases, even with discounted prices, which would prevent the products from falling into a lower revenue category while potentially increasing sales volume. Additionally, it would help clear out older models, aligning with Apple's strategy of refreshing their product lineup annually.

All strategies should be examined with additional data and their performance should be studied to see if they are applicable. It's always necessary to evaluate what we implement to understand if it works and if it benefits us.
</p>
